#summary Google Summer of Code 2008 project proposal and roadmap
#labels SoC-2008

=Project proposal=
This is an application to the SoC idea of The Enlightenment Foundation, [http://wiki.enlightenment.org/index.php/SoC_Project_Ideas#Evince-like_program_.28Challenging.29 "Evince-like program"]

==Codebase==
All code will be 
in C. The core application will depend on Ecore, Evas, and Edje and Efreet, plugin dependencies will be described later. All code will be written with localization support (using the gnu gettext library).

==Plugins==

Eyesight will be a plugin-based file viewer application. Every file type will have an input plugin.

Plugins will be shared libraries whose functions will be dlopened when necessary. A C-language API will be provided for plugin development. The plugin system will use the ecore_plugin framework for platform independence.

Planned plugins:
  # PDF/DVI (with epdf and edvi libraries)
  # Image viewer (with evas)
  # Video player (with emotion library)

==User interface==
The GUI will be edje-based, for maximal flexibility and eyecandy. Every theme must define three edje swallows for three toolbars (general, view and navigation). General toolbar will contain application-level buttons, like open, preferences, help, etc. The plugin API will provide functions wich can add widgets to these toolbars.

The default theme, called [http://bp1.blogger.com/_EHjPYdSoHP4/R-pa17dukBI/AAAAAAAABBQ/kU8vi7Dnzjw/s1600-h/eye.png Docker], will utilize window space as good as possible. The file content will take up the whole window and controls will popup on mouse move in a specified area, or keystroke (will be an option).

==Development roadmap==
I've already started work on the application, but the larger part of the coding will be done during the summer.

  * End of May: finish basic user interface and Docker theme
  * End of June: finish plugin API and maybe PDF/DVI input plugin
  * End of July: create user-friendly configuration dialogs, plugin management, fix most bugs
  * End of August: creare image viewer plugin and a Classic theme that fits into the E17 desktop
  * Localization, documentation, audio/video support will probably go beyond SoC.